---
id: "8f9f5ac6-2aa7-4fa1-a51d-21c87d917f3b"
title: "7 Deadly Sins: Envy"
description: "An overview of one of the seven deadly sins, envy."
imagePrompt: ""
pubDate: "Oct 23 2025"
heroImage: "/devotionals/10-23-2025.jpeg"
author: "Toby"
---

"His house is bigger than mine."

"He's half my age and makes twice my income."

"He's younger, faster, better, stronger."

The 7 deadly sins were formalized by Christian theologians in the early 6th century and are considered "deadly" because they give rise to spiritual death. The Bible teaches us about these sings, but their designation as the "7 Deadly Sins" is a man made conceptualization.

This is week is about Envy.

Envy poisons a person's life by quietly eroding their peace, relationships, and self-worth. One of the greatest ironies of envy is that the target of our envy never gets impacted - we only spiral into our own vortex of destruction and harm. We become haunted by a ghost that was never sent.

The sin of envy causes us to unwittingly become an agent for Satan. We become an absent father, we lose respect from our coworkers, and we become a sower of discord in other marriages. We fabricate narratives that would be more appropriate for a Disney+ series than real life.

Scripture also tells us that envy is not just a state of mind. There is a physical toll we pay as well:

> "A heart at peace gives life to the body, but envy rots the bones." Proverbs 14:30 NIV

Everyone experiences envy. The key is not to repress it but to recognize it, acknowledge it, and reframe it.

Instead of, "He's too perfect, there must be something really dark about him." Consider, "No one is perfect, I hope he is surrounded by the right community and support."

Instead of, "His culture makes him treat people a certain way." Consider, "He comes from a culture that treats people a certain way, but every culture does that. Including mine."

Instead of, "He has a history of addiction and mental disorder. He's unhinged and unpredictable." Consider, "He has come such difficult addictions, met amazing people along the way, heard beautiful stories from all walks of life, and met Jesus in the suffering."

**Reflection Questions**
1. Which responsibilities or hard conversations am I avoiding, especially when it comes to teenagers?
2. Why do I try to shepherd others when I am failing to shepherd my own household?
3. Whose souls am I harming and deceiving as a consequence of my envy?

There is a saying in Nigeria that goes: "A fool at 40 is a fool forever." While I don't actually believe that as truth (I have seen God turn hearts at all ages, even at 60, 70, 80, 90), I can certainly understand the sentiment!

Next week: Gluttony.

**References**:
- Stronger - Kanye West: https://open.spotify.com/track/0j2T0R9dR9qdJYsB7ciXhf?si=0c4bc4ecf932481a
- Envy: The Case of Israel - Tim Keller: https://open.spotify.com/episode/6ITWr8xxo5Ojs6zMpWZ1Cw?si=4f3b0432bc5f495e
- What Are the Seven Deadly Sins? A Biblical Guide - https://www.christianity.com/wiki/sin/what-are-the-seven-deadly-sins.html
- Reframing - https://www.psychologytoday.com/us/blog/stronger-the-broken-places/201712/reframing
