---
id: "29d897a7-f75e-460d-9ca1-c0f2819acca6"
title: "The Annihilation of Self"
description: "When new wine is poured into an old wineskin, it bursts because the wineskin cannot contain its effervescence, resulting in waste. This serves as a biblical parallel to the annihilation of self. We see this principle illustrated in the parable of the prodigal son."
pubDate: "Feb 24 2025"
heroImage: "https://res.cloudinary.com/dryy6uo6k/image/upload/v1740434441/wineskin_uq7qv4.png"
---

I borrowed the title from the 2024 FX limited series, The Veil. The "annihilation of self" is a process in which characters must shed their former identities, beliefs, and attachments to fully commit to their covert missions. In the high-stakes world of international espionage, this annihilation is not just a tactical necessity but a profound transformation that redefines their identity and purpose. Similarly, Scripture calls us to undergo a spiritual transformation—abandoning the old self to fully embrace God's purpose. In Ephesians 4:22, Paul commands, "Put off the old self," because it prevents us from embracing our God-given mission. Galatians 5:17 further explains that the old self (the flesh) is in constant conflict with the Spirit. Just as we cannot pour new wine into old wineskins, the old self must be put off for us to experience the transformation and restoration available to us. When new wine is poured into an old wineskin, it bursts because the wineskin cannot contain its effervescence, resulting in waste. This serves as a biblical parallel to the annihilation of self. We see this principle illustrated in the parable of the prodigal son.

In the biblical narrative (Luke 15:11-32), the prodigal son represents the universal struggle between the old and new self. His decision to leave home is not driven by malice but by the misguided belief that he can forge his own path without his father's guidance. His request for an early inheritance and subsequent departure symbolize an overconfidence in self-sufficiency—a reliance on the old self. The old self resists dependence on the Father, striving instead for autonomy. By choosing his own way, the prodigal son distances himself from the very source of his identity and grace: his father, who symbolizes divine authority and the giver of every good and perfect gift. This rejection is not merely an act of rebellion against divine authority but a deeper turning away from spiritual covering. However, as the parable reveals, rejecting the father’s presence does not lead to fulfillment but to emptiness. Stripped of support and grace, the prodigal son is left broken, longing for the unconditional love he once took for granted—so much so that he is even willing to accept the place of a servant.

The necessity of putting off the old self is clear: it directly conflicts with God's will. Romans 8:7 states that the flesh does not submit to God's authority and is in opposition to His will. This resistance to surrender is what led the prodigal son away from his father. Similarly, John 15:5 reminds us that apart from Christ, we can do nothing. If we do not actively put off the old self, we risk spiritual separation—much like the prodigal son’s self-imposed exile. However, removing the old self is not enough. If we only focus on what we must leave behind, we still fall into the trap of self-reliance—attempting to live right or do God's work in our own strength. True transformation comes not just from putting off but also from putting on: we must clothe ourselves in the new self, which is Christ (Ephesians 4:24).

One of the greatest deceptions of the old self is the illusion that we can "hack it" on our own. Just as the prodigal son became trapped in his misguided belief in self-sufficiency, we too can fall into the false notion that we are capable of navigating life apart from God. The father in the parable does not chase after his son—not because he does not care, but because he knows the son is not truly lost. Luke 15:20 tells us that he never stopped caring, but the son’s vision was clouded by the old self and all that it represents. His true restoration begins when he comes to his senses—the revelation that true sonship (or daughterhood) is only possible through the active presence and involvement of the father. Likewise, true transformation begins when we recognize that life apart from God leads to emptiness. The call to "annihilate self" is not about losing our identity but about surrendering completely to the Father so we can embrace the fullness of life in Christ. Only by putting off the old self and putting on the new can we fully experience the true sonship and daughterhood we were created for.

**<u>Bible Reading</u>**

Monday - Luke 15:11-32<br />
Tuesday- Ephesians 4:17-24<br />
Wednesday- Ephesians 4: 25-32<br />
Thursday: John 15:1-11<br />
Friday- Galatians 5:16-25<br />
Saturday- Colossians 3:12-17
